---
tags:
  - Location
---

- A lot of shit happened here
- A [[Zorathar's Father]] died here and a cult of a dragon is here
- Ash of the dead dragon

The Mere of Dead Men (or Merdelain, meaning "Slow Marching Court" in Elvish) is a swampy area located along the Sword Coast North. The name "Mere of Dead Men" referred to the thousands of dwarves, elves, and humans of the Fallen Kingdom who were slain here during the invasion of a draconic army.   Through the powers of Varis' cloak, Bel witnessed a vision of [Bhaal](https://www.worldanvil.com/w/sword-coast-voldaren/a/bhaal-person) and [Myrkul](https://www.worldanvil.com/w/sword-coast-voldaren/a/myrkul-person) meeting with three mysterious figures in the Mere of Dead Men where they performed some type of ritual using a crimson stone. The ritual caused shadows to surround the stone, before it conjured what looked like a spear of blood that impaled [[Bhaal]]. The stone then sprouted multiple tendrils of shadow that rapidly shot outwards. The masked figure then pushed Bel out of the vision, and Bel saw a tendril strike Rosette, almost killing her.

The Mere was located along the Sword Coast on the Sea of Swords between Neverwinter and Waterdeep. The High Road skirted its eastern edges on its way through the foothills of the Sword Mountains to the east. The nearest significant settlement was Leilon to the north.   The Mere of Dead Men was a cold saltwater swamp roughly 100 miles (160 km) long by 30 miles (48 km) wide along the shore. It was a desolate place full of monsters and few members of the civilized races. The swamp constantly grew over time, swallowing homes and property located close to its boundaries. It was believed that the eastern boundary of the Mere was magically bound to the High Road (perhaps via a wish spell from the Mere's creator), since attempts to reroute the road were futile and only caused the expansion of the swamp.   The Mere itself was full of trees, vines, quicksand, and hidden islands, and it was generally covered in fog, making visibility very poor. The bones of fallen creatures were clearly visible throughout the Mere. The water was deep enough that it could be navigated on a flat-bottomed boat, but the dark water and hidden obstructions made that choice dangerous.   Inside the Mere were the flooded ruins of a number of castles and settlements. Many of the castles had strange wards that would either strengthen certain magic or negate it.

Rumour has it that some dragonborn and lizardfolk have made their home in the Mere of Dead Men, but these reports are incredibly sparse and unconfirmed, as no one has actually ventured into the Mere and returned in several decades. The dangers lying in the Mere and lack of any discernable treasures or valuable resources has also made exploration of the Mere highly undesireable.

The Mere of Dead Men was not always the swamp that it is today. The story goes that in a time long ago, a powerful dragon leading an army laid siege to a great city in the region. The ruler of the city in his desperation, pleaded to the gods to send relief. The first god to answer the ruler's prayers was Talos, who conjured a storm of immense power to flood the region. After seven days, the storm passed, killing all who were caught in its path, draconic invaders and the inhabitants of the city alike. All that remained were the ruins of the city and a desolate swamp. There were rumours that at some point, the aforementioned dragon was resurrected, and a cult was formed around it, although these rumours are unconfirmed.